>> Maximiliano Firtman: So
after the icons,
something next is talk
about the Splash Screens.
So when a Splash Screen is just
a mobile app design pattern.
Be careful with mobile.
So it's mobile only that renders a
static image while the app process is
loading.
So it's when you open an app and
you see in that animation,
it's just on a static image
while the rest is loading.
So on Android it works this way,
they are automatically generated.
So I don't need to do anything to
get a Splash Screen on Android.
You can't provide your own image.
They use just the meta data from a Web App
Manifest, I will show you which parts.
So it looks like this, and
it's taking exactly this information.
It's taking the theme
color from the status bar.
Then the background color,
it's a property that we haven't
defined in our manifest for
that background that you see there.
Then the icon. 512 preferred there.
And finally, the name of your PWA,
the large name.
And it generates an image with that.
Now, let's jump into iOS.
So on iOS and iPadOS,
I have good news and bad news, okay?
We'll start with the good news.
It won't use the App Manifest meta data.
I hear you say good news, yeah, yeah.
Because that means that we
can create our own images.
So you can customize with your logo,
you can create a piece of art,
whatever you want, okay?
This is where the good news ends, why?
Well, they are known as Startup Image.
So Apple named them as Startup Images.
We define them through a link.
So we have to create the PNG files and
define them through a link element.
Also, for
some reason... I actually reported this, and
no one answered, to the WebKit team,
you must use the deprecated meta tag for
them to appear.
That is deprecated, and we shouldn't
be using that meta tag anymore.
So actually, the Web App Manifest spec
replaced that one but yeah, I don't know.
And here comes the worst problem,
it must match exactly the current
device's screen size.
If the PNG is one pixel more or
less than the current image,
it will ignore it, okay?
On iPad it gets even more complicated.
So let's see the code.
It's apple-touch-startup-image,
and you pass the PNG file.
And that the first one is the meta
tag that you need to add,
apple-mobile-web-app-capable.
When Steve Jobs was
presenting Web Apps for
iOS in the video we saw earlier,
he was talking about that
meta tag before the display
standalone in the manifest.
Well, the problem is that we need the
image with the exact size of the device
screen.
And what's the problem?
We have a lot of iPhones with
different screen sizes, okay?
Actually, well, you can see right
now you need to create six images.
So those are the groups, okay?
I'm just showing you this really
quickly because you will get the idea.
Also, we need Landscape versions.
Fortunately, I'm not sure if you know this
but only Landscape if you have an iPhone,
the home screen works Landscape
only in some devices,
only on the original Plus
now known as Max version.
If not, there is no Landscape, so
I don't have, I have the Pro only.
So if I go Landscape, you don't see
my icons going Landscape, okay?
You need the Max for that.
So we need two versions for Landscape.
So for iPad,
we have several iPads available.
This year we have more, even more.
Hey, we have two kinds of iPad,
there are two kinds of iPad program.
We have the old one, the new ones,
blah, blah, blah, blah.
Portrait and Landscape in that case, for
everyone you need Portrait and Landscape.
And then we have a Split View,
where it can be a third, two-thirds.
So yeah, we have a problem, right?
And also, we have Side View.
That's when you have one
on top of the other one,
one window on top of the other one.
And now on some iPads,
you can even have your own size, Any size.
You can resize the window.
So it looks like this,
all the images you want.
And actually, this chart is outdated,
is from a couple of years ago.
So we have a problem, right?
Because you need to
create more than 20 PNGs.
And also,
the sizes properties is ignored, so
you need to use media queries to
specify them which is kind of whoo.
Imagine your HTML should
contain all these things there.
So yeah, it's like we're not
going to do that, right?
So let's talk about two
solutions to the problem.
One, it's called the PWA static asset
generator, it's actually available on npm.
You just run command line,
you create one SVG with what you want, and
some rules, and it will actually
create all the versions for you, okay?
This is a video, so there we are.
So of how that works, so
you request that, and
it creates all the images for you, okay?
Static images for you and then it gives
you the links that you need to copy and
paste into your HTML, okay?
So yeah, it is what it is.
But there is another solution,
using some hacky solution but it works.
It's a Client Side Generator.
So using canvas, an invisible canvas or
memory only canvas,
you can draw on the screen at PNG based
on the current device dimensions.
Then convert that into the Data URI and
inject that into the HTML, and it works.
And if you don't wanna do it manually,
there is a library known as PWACompat,
created by the Chrome team
that will actually do that.
That it takes the Web App Manifest and
generates assets for
other browsers as well and
including the startup images on the fly
with JavaScript for iOS and iPadOS.
And actually, it emulates
the Android splash screens for iOS.
The final screen that you get is similar
to the one you get on Android, okay?
Which if you're okay, it what it is.
And in this case, after you
include the manifest in your HTML,
you add the script for PWACompat.
And if you want,
you can even style that image that
is going to be generated just
by using some styles, okay?
So maybe this is the simplest solution to
create a good startup image solution,
okay?
For iOS, PWACompat, okay?
Let me get out of here for a sec.
So if you Google PWACompat, you will
find a couple of, of course, of results.
You have the NPM solution,
and then we have an article.
I'm not sure if you know this guy, okay?
That says you shouldn't use
Chrome PWACompat libraries.
And I explain why, okay?
Anyway, you can read my article,
it's from five years ago, okay?
Why?
Because it's actually injecting a lot of
meta tags that are deprecated and
yeah, okay, it's fine but
just have in mind that you
will have that problem.
This is the official article talking
about this thing, how that works.
I think they have a video here so
you can see how it looks like.
I don't know why, well, they have
a problem with rotation, there we are.
So you see that's the image,
that's this startup image
generated by the library, okay?
The emoji typer.
If you wanna try this on our app,
we just need to copy and
paste this into our index.html
after the manifest, okay?
After the manifest.
I don't need this,
just the script, okay?
Just that.
So if I run this, now if we inspect this,
if you go to the head, we may find
some other things that we don't have.
We have these meta tags.
So this x5-page-mode,
what is that meta tag?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: I don't know,
okay?
So it's actually a meta tag from 15 years
ago from a device of Sony Ericsson,
whatever.
So I was actually suggesting not to use
this just because you think it's a happy
library, because it's
adding some meta tags,
it's injecting some meta tags that
you don't know what it's doing.
So and they are deprecated,
just that if you know what
you're doing it's fine, okay?
And I'm not seeing any image being
injected because this is Chrome.
So it's detecting that it's
not really an iPhone, so
it's not creating images just for
the sake of creating images.
But if I run this on my iOS simulator,
so if I open now here and
I inspect my iPhone simulator.
So if I go to the iOS simulator and
I run my app,
I refresh my app just in case,
now I go to Safari on my desktop.
So Safari on the Mac and
I will try to inspect my iPhone session.
So now I have my inspector on one side and
my iPhone on the other side.
So if I inspect the head, you can see
that at some points I have two links,
apple-touch-startup-image with
a base64 image embedded there.
For Portrait and Landscape,
it is hacky, okay?
I can see some of your pain faces,
but it works.
So that means that when you install this,
when you install now a new PWA,
it's not going to change
the previous installations.
Now, when I open this,
I see my Splash Screen for iOS and
I don't need to create
100 versions of my image.
>> Student: Sorry,
I'm confused about which solution this is,
cuz it's not using the PWACompat.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: It's
using PWACompat, yeah.
>> Student: But
you don't want us to use it.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: So I want you to
at least understand what the thing is
doing.
For example, it's injecting this meta
data, Apple Mobile Web App title.
That meta tag is overriding the manifest.
So if you don't know that, I mean,
you may have some problems.
So I mean, the title was kind of click
bait, but they was trying to say,
hey, don't just add it
because it's not harmless.
It's injecting things,
it's doing a lot of things.
So understand what's going on because then
you may have a problem in the future and
you don't know what's going on,
why this is not working.
Because the library is injecting
some meta data that has nothing to
do with the startup image
that you may don't want.
Maybe what you want is open source so
you can just take the part that creates
the startup image, the Client Side part,
and remove the rest, okay?
Things like that.
I think that's that's pretty cool.
Just have in mind it was just a warning.